README.md, before:

# Nerdvana
What happens when a Buddhist becomes totally absorbed with the computer he is working with? He enters Nerdvana.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

1. Install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)
2. Install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/)
3. Install [Spring Tool Suite (STS)](http://spring.io/tools/sts/all), an IDE specific for Java development using the Spring framework.
4. Install a text editor of your choice for front end development - you may optionally also do this within STS.

### Get Running
1. Use your Terminal and `cd` into the `Nerdvana` repo
2. Run `vagrant up`
    
    This command "creates and configures the VM according to your vagrantfile". See (https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/cli/up.html)[https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/cli/up.html] for more details.

    Please note that the initial creation may take a long time (~ 30 minutes) to install all the needed dependencies (Java, Node, etc.). Please be patient!
5. After the vagrant box is setup and up to date, run `vagrant ssh`.
    
    This command tunnels you into your VM. See (https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/cli/ssh.html)[https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/cli/ssh.html] for more info.
6. `cd /vagrant`
    
    Go to the `/vagrant` directory. This is directory is synced to your computer's Nerdvana directory.
7. Run `npm install`
    
    This will install all the node.js dependencies.
8. `gulp serve`
    
    This will get the front end running
9. The app should be running at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser

### Launch the backend server

#### Via Command Line

1. Open another tab/window in Terminal. Make sure you are in the `Nerdvana` directory.
2. Run `vagrant ssh`
3. `cd /vagrant`
4. Use Maven to start the server by typing `./mvnw spring-boot:run`

#### Via STS

Instead of running from the Terminal, you can launch the backend server within the Spring Tool Suite IDE. 

_Configuration Instructions coming soon..._

#### Verify the Back End is Running

From the command line, type `curl localhost:8080/api` to see available endpoints.

#### A Quick Note

For now, the front end app runs on a separate server ([Browsersync](https://www.browsersync.io/)), which will allow for faster front end development, on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). The back end server is [Tomcat](https://tomcat.apache.org/), running on [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080). The front end will talk to the back end via `/api` endpoints, so the front end server is set up to proxy any calls to `/api` to the back end server on 8080. 

#### Coming Soon
We will be introducing a build step that will integrate front end code, so that everything be served by Tomcat.

Commit message:

Add instructions to run app via the IDE to readme

README.md, after:

# Nerdvana
What happens when a Buddhist becomes totally absorbed with the computer he is working with? He enters Nerdvana.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

1. Install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)
2. Install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/)
3. Install [Spring Tool Suite (STS)](http://spring.io/tools/sts/all), an IDE specific for Java development using the Spring framework.
4. Install a text editor of your choice for front end development - you may optionally also do this within STS.

### Get Running
1. Use your Terminal and `cd` into the `Nerdvana` repo
2. Run `vagrant up`
    
    This command "creates and configures the VM according to your vagrantfile". See (https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/cli/up.html)[https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/cli/up.html] for more details.

    Please note that the initial creation may take a long time (~ 30 minutes) to install all the needed dependencies (Java, Node, etc.). Please be patient!
5. After the vagrant box is setup and up to date, run `vagrant ssh`.
    
    This command tunnels you into your VM. See (https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/cli/ssh.html)[https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/cli/ssh.html] for more info.
6. `cd /vagrant`
    
    Go to the `/vagrant` directory. This is directory is synced to your computer's Nerdvana directory.
7. Run `npm install`
    
    This will install all the node.js dependencies.
8. `gulp serve`
    
    This will get the front end running
9. The app should be running at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser

### Launch the backend server

#### Via Command Line

1. Open another tab/window in Terminal. Make sure you are in the `Nerdvana` directory.
2. Run `vagrant ssh`
3. `cd /vagrant`
4. Use Maven to start the server by typing `./mvnw spring-boot:run`

#### Via STS

Instead of running from the Terminal, you can launch the backend server within the Spring Tool Suite IDE. 

1. Open STS
2. If you haven't added the Nerdvana project to your workspace, add it by navigating to File > Import from the toolbar. If you have already done this, skip to step 6.
3. From the dropdown options, open Maven. Choose "Existing Maven Projects".
4. Click Next.
5. From the directory finder, find and select Nerdvana.
6. Once your Nerdvana is successfully imported, you may click on "nerdvana".
7. Run the project either from the top nav, or the run button. Choose "Run as > Spring Boot Application".
8. This comand runs `main()` from `src/main/java/com/sps/NerdvanaApplication.java`. You should see the application running from the console.

_Troubleshooting_

An error you may encounter when running from the IDE is that the `@Data` Lombok Annotations are not being picked up. These annotations automatically generate the getters and setters we need. Without them the code will not run correctly. If this is occurring, you will need to explicitly add the Lombok jar to your build path, even though Maven should have done this for you since it's added to the `pom.xml`.

1. Download the [lombok jar](https://projectlombok.org/download.html).
2. Double click on the jar once downloaded to install.
3. Right click on your project, select Build Path > Configure Build Path.
4. Click Add Variable, then Configure Variables, then New Variable.
5. In the window, type `LOMBOK_JAR` for the name and click File to find the path to the lombak jar.
6. Click Ok. `LOMBOK_JAR` should be available for your to select as an option for Classpath Variables.
7. Select your newly added `LOMBOK_JAR` variable to add to the class path. 
8. Click ok.
9. Once added, make sure you click Apply.

#### Verify the Back End is Running

From the command line, type `curl localhost:8080/api` to see available endpoints.

#### A Quick Note

For now, the front end app runs on a separate server ([Browsersync](https://www.browsersync.io/)), which will allow for faster front end development, on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). The back end server is [Tomcat](https://tomcat.apache.org/), running on [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080). The front end will talk to the back end via `/api` endpoints, so the front end server is set up to proxy any calls to `/api` to the back end server on 8080. 

#### Coming Soon
We will be introducing a build step that will integrate front end code, so that everything be served by Tomcat.
